Exercises
The solution files for these exercises are in the AD141-apps repository, within the io/solutions directory.

Exercise 1
Write a program that counts the number of lines, words, and characters in each file named on the command line.

Exercise 2
Revise Exercise 1 so that it accepts as an optional first command line argument a -t option.

The program must then only print the total number of lines, words, and characters in all the files combined.

Exercise 3
Write a program that asks the user for the names of an input and an output file.

Open both of these files and then have the program read from the input file (by using readline()) and write to the output file (by using write()).

In effect, this is a copy program, whose interface to the program might look like:

Enter the name of the input file: myinput
Enter the name of the output file: myoutput
Exercise 4
Rewrite Exercise 3 such that the file names are obtained from the command line if two arguments are supplied.

If the number of arguments is not two, then it should fall back on prompting the user for the filenames.

The interface might look like:

python3 your_program_name.py inputfile outputfile
Exercise 5
Add exception handling to the previous exercise so that if a file open fails, an OSError exception is handled, and the program is halted.

Exercise 6
Write a program that displays the file name, size, and modification date for all those files in a directory that are greater than a given size.

The directory name and the size criteria are given as command line arguments.

Exercise 7
Create two data files, each with a set of names, one per line.

Now, write a program that reads both files and lists only those names that are in both files.

The two file names should be supplied on the command line.

Exercise 8
Now, create a few more files with one name per line.

The program in this exercise should read all these files and print the number of times each line occurs over all the files.

The file names should be supplied on the command line.

The following files are available in the AD141-apps repository, within the io/starter directory, and you can use them in the exercise:

names_a.txt
names_b.txt
names_c.txt
names_d.txt
The output from the program might be as follows:

Alice       4
Bart        2
Beverly     1
Bill        4
Chris       2
Dave        1
Frank       3
Jane        3
John        2
Mary        1
Mike        4
Peter       3
Susan       2